Earth is in the middle of a large disaster or war.  You, and a few other pods are launched toward the moon secretly in hopes of continuing the race should Earth become uninhabitable.  Your pod lands first, you see no signs of the other pods (yet), and you have a limited supply of water (enough for a couple of months?), food (a couple of weeks?), and air (a couple of hours or days?).  You must build a basic shelter to live in using some basic materials and tools sent along with you in your pod.  You also have a couple of designs/plans for building a couple of vital appliances to make your stay sustainable.

Exploring will be limited by the oxygen supply (should have some sort of emergency backup supply, or maybe quick way to get back to the base).  Maybe digging down should be easier than exploring out at first to encourage it.  Materials toward the top of the surface are mostly lunar soil, some basic crafting material to build a few basic machines.  No sign of other life.  Deeper, discover some unexpected signs of humans having visited before but not making it (maybe small underground deserted modern base).  At this point maybe find some usable equipment.

Some underground water sources will be found, maybe pump it back to the surface, or hand carry it at first to replenish water tank until water reuse machine is built.

Find mushrooms or some sort of edible underground plant that can be cultivated?  Or do we require that only food brought from earth be cultivated for large portions of the early game, and maybe other food sources found later on (or is this even necessary)?

Walls will conduct electricity and water for convenience?  Or should the user have to build out plumbing and wiring.  Maybe only advanced walls have plumbing and electric built in.

Once you get a basic setup, you get a radio message from the scientist that he will land his pod as soon as you have sleeping quarters for him.  Once you have done that, he will join you and give you basic plans for a small lab.

Once you discover long range radio, you get a message from a doctor who needs sleeping quarters, who will bring plans for a basic medical bay.  Similar process for other party members.

Variations:

1. Maybe not the moon?  Maybe a more far away planet to account for travel time and more oddities?  Maybe too much like the game Tiy is working on, and maybe this could be a sequal or add on pack.
2. Maybe no birthing, children are perpetually children?  Depends on scale of the game, and how many people the game can handle.  Ideally you could turn the moon into a manhattan that would run itself, but that is probably too much for a first iteration.

You are wearing:

1. Jump suit
2. Space suit
4. Space helmet
5. Small air tank

In your pod:

Items:

1. Enough air tight material to build a small enclosure.
2. A battery powered tool for digging down (maybe some sort of jack hammer).
3. Solar panels
4. Batteries
5. Large air tank with several weeks of air
6. Large water tank with several weeks of water
7. Stash of non-perishable food with several weeks worth of food
8. Basic first aid kit(s) (maybe limited to 100 uses or something)

Plans / Instructions to build:

1. Phaser / Gun
2. Small batteries
3. Small battery charger
3. A few solar Panels
4. Oxygen reuse machine
5. Water reuse machine
6. Simple short range radio

You will need to find the materials to be able to build these.

You instinctively know how to build:

1. Basic sleeping pod
2. Basic kitchen
3. Basic living quarters
4. Basic work bench

Other ideas for pod inventory:

1. Some sort of air lock mechanism to go in and out of the enclosure (or should the user be required to come up with their own)?
